Flowgroup documentation (#80)
glotzerlab/signac-docs: docs/source/flow-group.rst

   that the resources requested will match the most computationally intensive
   operation. To avoid waste compute time make sure that you group operations
   with similar resource requests or that cheaper oprations do not run for long.

.. _specify-directives:

Group Specific Directives
=========================

One of the features of :py:class:`FlowGroup` is the ability to assign directives
other than the default to an operation in a given group context. This means that
groups can function as context specific execution protocols for operations. To
specify group specfic operation directives use the
:code:`@group.with_directives` decorator provided by the result of
:code:`FlowProject.make_group`. Below shows an example where default and
group specific operation directives are used.

.. code-block:: python
   
   #project.py
   from flow import FlowProject, directives

   class Project(FlowProject):
      pass

   ex = Project.make_group(name='ex')

   @ex.with_directives(directives=dict(npgu=2))
   @directives(ngpu=1)
   @Project.operation
   def op1(job):
      pass

   @ex.with_directives(directives=dict(nranks=2))

>    @directives(nranks=0)

Author: Technically we don't use MPI when `nranks == 0`; I believe we do a `directives.get('nranks', 0) > 0`, but I agree that it might be confusing to people.

    def op1(job):
        pass

    @ex
    @Project.operation
    def op2(job):
        pass

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        Project().main()

To execute or submit only ``ex``, use the option ``--operation`` (``-o``) to
select the group like you would for a regular operation. A group is eligible if
at least one of its operations is eligible. Resources (GPUs, MPI ranks, etc.)
are requested appropriately whether groups are run in series or in parallel.

.. Note::

    Parallel execution of groups means that the cumulative total of operation
    resources will be requested: e.g. if a group contains two operations ``op1``
    and ``op2`` and each take two GPUs, then four GPUs will be requested if the
    group is run in paralel.

    When running the same group in series only 2 GPUs will be requested.

.. tip::

    To avoid wasting resources when submitting groups with multiple operations,
    make sure that you group operations with similar resource requests or that
    cheaper operations do not run for long. Mixing GPU operations with highly
    parallel CPU and will likely leave either the GPU or CPUs idle when the
    other type of operation is running.

> .. _flow-group-specify-directives:

Reviewer: The `-` is not consistent with the `_` used elsewhere.

Author: Good point.

.. _flow-group:

==========
FlowGroups
==========

This chapter provides the information to effectively use multiple operation

> groups in submitting and running operations in multiple environments.

Author: The idea here was to say that they can have different directives too.

.. _flow_group_definition:

Definition
==========

A :py:class:`FlowGroup` is a collection of one or more operation(s) with the
directives associated with that operation. Operations can be in multiple groups
and the directives for an operation can be different in every group that it is
in. Practically, a :py:class:`FlowGroup` acts like a "meta-operation" that can
be submitted and run identical to operations. In fact, within the source code,
all operations are wrapped by singleton groups that handle command generation
and resource requests for that operation.

.. _flow_group_basic_usage:

Basic Usage
===========

While a :py:class:`FlowGroup` is automatically created for each operation, users must

> manually create multiple operation groups. Below is an example which creates a

Author: group is just shorthand for `FlowGroup`. I can just use `FlowGroup` throughout though.

group named ``ex`` which contains the operations ``op1`` and ``op2``.

.. code-block:: python

    # project.py
    from flow import FlowProject

    class Project(FlowProject):
        pass

    ex = Project.make_group(name='ex')

    @ex
    @Project.operation
    def op1(job):
        pass

    @ex
    @Project.operation
    def op2(job):
        pass

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        Project().main()

To execute or submit ``ex`` alone, use the ``-o`` option to select the group like you would for a

> regular operation. Groups are eligible if at least one of their operations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
regular operation. A group is eligible if at least one of its operations
```

> is eligible. Resources are requested appropriately whether groups are run in

Reviewer: Does resources refer to GPUs, etc?
I could use some clarification on what "appropriate" means, i.e, **how** does running in series vs. in parallel change what resources need to be requested?

> serial or parallel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
series or in parallel.
```

.. tip::

    To avoid large resource requests, avoid running multiple operation groups in

>     parallel. Also, when submitting multiple operation groups in serial, remember

Reviewer: I think this is the first time this is mentioned
```suggestion
    parallel. Also, when submitting multiple operation groups in serial, note
```

    that the resources requested will match the most computationally intensive
    operation in that group. To avoid wasting compute time, make sure that you group operations

>     with similar resource requests or that cheaper operations do not run for long.

Reviewer: I think this tip has two tips: one against running in parallel; and one about how to allocate operations into groups. Should it be split?

.. _flow-group-specify-directives:

Group Specific Directives
=========================

One of the features of :py:class:`FlowGroup` is the ability to assign directives
other than the default to an operation in a given group context. This means that
groups can function as context-specific execution protocols for operations. To
configure group-specific operation directives, use the
:code:`@group.with_directives` decorator provided by the result of
:code:`FlowProject.make_group`. Below shows an example where default and
group specific operation directives are used.

.. code-block:: python
   

>     #project.py

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # project.py
```

.. code-block:: python

    # project.py
    from flow import FlowProject

    class Project(FlowProject):

>       pass

Reviewer 2: Ceci n'est pas un pass.
```suggestion
        pass
```
